RHDEVDOCS-4842-how-to-configure-secrets-in-alertmanager (#56427)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-adding-a-secret-to-an-alertmanager-configuration.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="monitoring-adding-a-secret-to-an-alertmanager-configuration_{context}"]

> = Adding a secret to an Alertmanager configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Adding a secret to the Alertmanager configuration
```

Reviewer: except this suggestion, others are LGTM

Author: Changed per your suggestion.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="monitoring-adding-a-secret-to-an-alertmanager-configuration_{context}"]
= Adding a secret to an Alertmanager configuration

> You can add secrets to the Alertmanager configuration for core platform monitoring components by editing the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map for the `openshift-monitoring` project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add secrets to the Alertmanager configuration for core platform monitoring components by editing the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-monitoring` project.
```

Author: Fixed

You can add secrets to the Alertmanager configuration for user-defined projects by editing the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.

[NOTE]
====

> To configure Alertmanager for user-defined projects to reference the same secret as exists in the `openshift-monitoring` project, you must create the same secret in both the `openshift-monitoring` project and the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.

Reviewer 2: To configure alertmanager secret in uwm it needs to exist only in `openshift-user-workload-monitoring`

Author: I removed the note. It was confusing.

> To configure Alertmanager for user-defined projects to reference the same secret as exists in the `openshift-monitoring` project, you must create the same secret in both the `openshift-monitoring` project and the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure secrets in Alertmanager for user-defined projects create secret in `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.
```

Author: Replaced the old text with your suggested text.

==== 

After you add a secret to the config map, the secret is mounted as a volume at `/etc/alertmanager/secrets/<secret_name>` within the `alertmanager` container for the Alertmanager pods.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

> * You have created the secret for the endpoint receiver.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have created the secret for configuring in Alertmanager.
```

Author: Fixed and added separate prerequisite items for core and UWM sections.

** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
** You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map.
* *If you are configuring components that monitor user-defined projects*:
** A cluster administrator has enabled monitoring for user-defined projects
** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role, or as a user with the `user-workload-monitoring-config-edit` role in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.

.Procedure

. To add a secret configuration to Alertmanager for core platform monitoring, edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-monitoring` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

. Add a `secrets:` section under `data/config.yaml/alertmanagerMain`.

. Add the configuration details for the secret in this section:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    alertmanagerMain:
      secrets: <1>
      - <secret_name_1> <2>
      - <secret_name_2>
----

> <1> This section contains the secret or secrets to be mounted into Alertmanager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> This section contains the secrets to be mounted into Alertmanager.
```

Author: fixed.

The secrets must be located within the same namespace as the Alertmanager object.
<2> The name of the `Secret` object that contains authentication credentials for the receiver.
If you add multiple secrets, each secret name must be located on a new line.
+
The following sample config map settings configure Alertmanager to use two `Secret` objects named `test-secret-basic-auth` and `test-secret-api-token`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    alertmanagerMain:
      secrets:
      - test-secret-basic-auth
      - test-secret-api-token
----

> . Optional: To add the secrets for use by Alertmanager in user-defined projects, add the same secret names under `data/config.yaml/alertmanager/secrets` in the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project:

Reviewer 2: We can mention to add it under `data/config.yaml/alertmanager/secrets` only?

```To add the secrets for use by Alertmanager in user-defined projects, add the secret names under `data/config.yaml/alertmanager/secrets` in the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project:```

> . Optional: To add the secrets for use by Alertmanager in user-defined projects, add the same secret names under `data/config.yaml/alertmanager/secrets` in the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project:

Author: Changed per your comment.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="monitoring-adding-a-secret-to-an-alertmanager-configuration_{context}"]
= Adding a secret to an Alertmanager configuration

> You can add secrets to the Alertmanager configuration for core platform monitoring components by editing the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map for the `openshift-monitoring` project

Reviewer: add "." after `project`

Author: fixed

You can add secrets to the Alertmanager configuration for user-defined projects by editing the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have created the secret for the endpoint receiver.
* *If you are configuring core {product-title} monitoring components in the `openshift-monitoring` project*:
** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
** You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map.
* *If you are configuring components that monitor user-defined projects*:
** A cluster administrator has enabled monitoring for user-defined projects
** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role, or as a user with the `user-workload-monitoring-config-edit` role in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.

> ** You have created the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map.

Reviewer: no need to mention it, since `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map is created by default if user project monitoring is enabled since 4.11

.Procedure

. To add a secret configuration to Alertmanager for core platform monitoring, edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-monitoring` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

. Add a `secrets:` section under `data/config.yaml/alertmanagerMain`.

. Add the configuration details for the secret in this section:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    alertmanagerMain:
      secrets:
      - <secret_name> <1>

>       - <secret_receiver_credentials> <2>

Reviewer: FYI, https://github.com/openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator/blob/release-4.13/pkg/manifests/types.go#L76-L81
Secrets is a list of secrets that need to be mounted into the Alertmanager, this means we can add one or multiple secrets for alertmanager

Author: Added content to reflect this behavior. PTAL.

----
<1> The name of the `Secret` object that contains the authentication credentials.

> <2> The key or keys in the specified `Secret` object that contain the authentication credentials.

Reviewer: FYI, https://github.com/openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator/blob/release-4.13/pkg/manifests/types.go#L76-L81
Secrets is a list of  secrets that need to be mounted into the Alertmanager, this means we can add one or multiple secrets for alertmanager

Author: @slashpai can you PTAL and confirm this behavior?

+

> The following sample config map settings configure Alertmanager to use a secret named `test-secret` that authenticates using a token in the `test-receiver-token` key in the `Secret` object:

Reviewer: the description is wrong, there are separated secrets for authentication, no relationship between them

Author: I think I understank, but I'm not entirely sure. I've revised the sentence. PTAL and LMK if it's correct.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    alertmanagerMain:
      secrets:

>       - test-secret

Reviewer: I see cluster-monitoring-config configmap and user-workload-monitoring-config configmap use the same secrets for alertmanager, just a reminder here, the secrets should be created under openshift-monitoring and openshift-user-workload-monitoring project if the two projects reference the same secret

      - test-receiver-token
----

> . Optional: To configure Alertmanager for user-defined projects to reference the same secret, use the same configuration, but instead add the secret name and key information under `data/config.yaml/alertmanager` in the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project:

Reviewer: just a reminder here, to configure Alertmanager for user-defined projects to reference the same secrets, the secrets should be both created under openshift-monitoring and openshift-user-workload-monitoring projects, since the secret resources is restricted to project

Author: Updated to reflect this behavior

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |

>     alertmanager:

Reviewer: should add `     enabled: true` under alertmanager, otherwise there is not UWM alertmanager pod created
```
alertmanager:
  enabled: true
```

Author: Added.
